# Data-Analysis
Two projects related to Data Analysis in R

1. Capital Bike-Share System Washington D.C. - USA
Training data file bike_21. csv
Test data file bike_test.csv

Background information
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where the
whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through
these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return it
back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs
around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there
exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental
and health issues.
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the
characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the
research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of
travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature
turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing
mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of the important events in the city
could be detected via monitoring these data.
Aim: Understanding what influences bike rental count hourly and also predict it in order
to satisfy demand.
The data
Bike-sharing rental process is highly correlated to the environmental and
seasonal settings. For instance, weather conditions, precipitation, day of week, season,
hour of the day, etc. can affect the rental behaviors. The core data set is related to the
two-year historical log corresponding to years 2011 and 2012 from Capital Bikeshare
system, Washington D.C., USA which is publicly available in
http://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data. We aggregated the data on hourly basis and
then extracted and added the corresponding weather and seasonal information. Weather
information are extracted from http://www.freemeteo.com.

Dataset characteristics
All datasets are random subsamples of 1500 hour occasions and have the
following fields:
 instant: record index
 dteday: date
 season : season (1:springer, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
 yr : year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
 mnth : month ( 1 to 12)
 holiday : weather day is holiday or not
 weekday : day of the week
 workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
 weathersit : Possible outcomes
 1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
 2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
 3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light
Rain + Scattered clouds
 4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
 temp : Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are divided to 41 (max)
 atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are divided to
50 (max)
 hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
 windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
 casual: count of casual users
 registered: count of registered users
 cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered (response)
Source of the data
 Fanaee-T, Hadi, and Gama, Joao, "Event labeling combining ensemble detectors
and background knowledge", Progress in Artificial Intelligence (2013): pp. 1-15,
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, doi:10.1007/s13748-013-0040-3.


2. Framingham:
The data of the work come from a large study that was carried out
in the US in heart disease, and is called the "Framingham Heart Disease Study."
This research began in 1948, and continues to this day, as the
Its database is constantly updated. The framdata.sav file contains metrics
in 1406 patients with heart problems. Specifically, the variables that
included in the file for each patient are:

1. AGE: Age of the patient
2. SBP: Patient systolic pressure
3. DBP: Diastolic pressure of the patient
4. CHOL: Patient cholesterol values
5. CIG: Number of cigarettes the patient smokes per day
6. MALE: Gender: 0: Female, 1: Male
Analyze the above data, answering the following questions:
a. Provide the appropriate descriptive measures for all variables, and
examine the relationships between them.
b. Is there a correlation between systolic and diastolic pressure?
c. Is the number of cigarettes related to the patient's systolic blood pressure?
d. Evaluate a linear model that examines the relationship between cholesterol
with the other variables.

Data sources:
 R. Dawber, M.D., Gilcin F. Meadors, M.D., M.P.H., and Felix E. Moore, Jr., National Heart
Institute, National Institues of Health, Public Health Service, Federal Security Agensy,
Washington, D. C., Epidemiological Approaches to Heart Disease: The Framingham Study
Presented at a Joint Session of the Epidemiology, Health Officers, Medical Care, and Statistics
Sections of the American Public Health Association, at the Seventy-eighth Annual Meeting in St.
Louis, Mo., November 3, 1950.
 Daniel Levy and Susan Brink. (2005). A Change of Heart: How the People of Framingham,
Massachusetts, Helped Unravel the Mysteries of Cardiovascular Disease. Knopf. ISBN 0-375-
41275-1.

